Allow AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter in CLIENT_SETUP and other Auth fixes (#1013)
moq-wg/moq-transport: draft-ietf-moq-transport.md

  the size of all registered Authorization tokens has been exceeded.

* Duplicate Auth Token Alias - Authorization Token attempted to register an
  Alias that was in use (see {{authorization-token}}).

* Version Negotiation Failed: The client didn't offer a version supported
  by the server.

* Malformed Auth Token - Invalid Auth Token serialization during registration
  (see {{authorization-token}}).

> * Unknown Auth Token Alias - Authorization Token refers to an Alias that is
>   not registered (see {{authorization-token}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unknown Auth Token Alias - No registered token found for the provided  Alias (see {{authorization-token}}).
```

#### AUTHORIZATION TOKEN {#authorization-token}

> The AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter (Parameter Type 0x03) MAY appeat in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter (Parameter Type 0x03) MAY appear in a
```

> CLIENT_SETUP, SUBSCRIBE, SUBSCRIBE_ANNOUNCES, ANNOUNCE TRACK_STATUS_REQUEST or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLIENT_SETUP, SUBSCRIBE, SUBSCRIBE_ANNOUNCES, ANNOUNCE, TRACK_STATUS_REQUEST or
```

> CLIENT_SETUP, SUBSCRIBE, SUBSCRIBE_ANNOUNCES, ANNOUNCE, TRACK_STATUS_REQUEST or

Reviewer 2: Can it not appear in SERVER_SETUP?  If I connect to a server to Upload video, I would want some sort of assurance it was the server I intended. Traditional TLS SNI is likely sufficient, but might there be use for further auth?

> FETCH message. This parameter converys information to authorize the sender to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FETCH message. This parameter conveys information to authorize the sender to
```

|------|------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| 0x1  | REGISTER   | There is an Alias, a Type and a Value. This Alias    |
|      |            | MUST be associated with the Token Value for the      |

> |      |            | duration of the session or it is deleted. This action|

Reviewer 2: nit: Why wouldn't Session be capitalized?

Author: Oh I was trying to improve consistency and it's more lower than upper case right now.  Do we like Session better?

Author: s/session/Session/

* Token Alias - a session-specific integer identifier that references a Token
  Value. There are separate Alias spaces for the client and server (eg: they can
  each register Alias=1). Once a Token Alias has been registered, it cannot be
  re-registered by the same sender in the session without first being
  deleted. Use of the Token Alias is optional.

* Token Type - a numeric identifier for the type of Token payload being
  transmitted. This type is defined by the IANA table "MOQT Auth Token Type".
  See {{iana}}. Type 0 is reserved to indicate that the type is not defined in
  the table and must be negotiated out-of-band between sender and receiver.

* Token Value - the payload of the Token. The contents and serialization of this
  payload are defined by the Token Type.

If the Token structure cannot be decoded, the receiver MUST close the session

> with Key-Value Formatting error.  The receiver of a message attempting to

Reviewer: where is this error defined ?

Author: It's Session error 0x6 (https://moq-wg.github.io/moq-transport/draft-ietf-moq-transport.html#name-termination)

register an Alias which is already registered MUST close the session with
`Duplicate Auth Token Alias`. The receiver of a message referencing an Alias
that is not currently registered MUST reject the message with `Unknown Auth
Token Alias`.

The receiver of a message containing a well-formed Token structure but otherwise
invalid AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter MUST reject that message with an
`Malformed Auth Token` error.

The receiver of a message carrying an AUTHORIZATION TOKEN with Alias Type
REGISTER that does not result in a session error MUST register the Token Alias,
Type and Value in the token cache, even if the message fails for other reasons,
including `Unauthorized`.  This allows senders to pipeline messages that refer
to previously registered tokens without potentially terminating the entire

> session.

Reviewer: I am not sure if we want to register an Unauthorized token.

Reviewer 2: Similar to an expired token, I think the idea is you'd store that there was an alias, but you wouldn't need to store the token itself since it's useless?

Author: > I am not sure if we want to register an Unauthorized token.

> you'd store that there was an alias, but you wouldn't need to store the token itself since it's useless

Yes this is fine.  If I send you an invalid token with alias=7, you can just mark alias=7 results in Unauthorized.

Let me put it a different way -- if the message carrying the register does not result in a session error, then subsequent usage of the alias MUST NOT result in a _session_ error either.  Would updating the explanation make you more comfortable @suhasHere?

Author: Added text indicating that the cache can store Token Alias + Error in cases when all future uses of the token would result in that error.

> session.

Author: Yes. In that case storing the value could be optimized away as well.

If a receiver detects that an authorization token has expired, it MUST retain
the registered Alias until it is deleted by the sender, though it MAY discard
other state associated with the token that is no longer needed.  Expiration does
not affect the size occupied by a token in the token cache.  Any message that
references the token with Alias Type USE_ALIAS fails with `Expired Auth Token`.

Using an Alias to refer to a previously registered Token Type and Value is for
efficiency only and has the same effect as if the Token Type and Value was
included directly.  Retiring an Alias that was previously used to authorize a
message has no retroactive effect on the original authorization, nor does it
prevent that same Token Type and Value from being re-registered.

Senders of tokens SHOULD only register tokens which they intend to re-use during
the session and SHOULD retire previously registered tokens once their utility
has passed.

By registering a Token, the sender is requiring the receiver to store the Token

> Alias and Token Value until they are delete, or the session ends. The receiver

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alias and Token Value until they are deleted, or the session ends. The receiver
```

|------|------------|------------------------------------------------------|

> * Token Alias - a Session-specific integer identifier that references a Token
>   Value. There are separate Alias spaces for the client and server (eg: they can
>   each register Alias=1). Once a Token Alias has been registered, it cannot be
>   re-registered by the same sender in the Session without first being
>   deleted. Use of the Token Alias is optional.

Author: ```suggestion
* Token Alias - a Session-specific integer identifier that references a Token
  Value. There are separate Alias spaces for the client and server (e.g.: they
  can each register Alias=1). Once a Token Alias has been registered, it cannot
  be re-registered by the same sender in the Session without first being
  deleted. Use of the Token Alias is optional.
```

  payload are defined by the Token Type.

If the Token structure cannot be decoded, the receiver MUST close the Session
with Key-Value Formatting error.  The receiver of a message attempting to
register an Alias which is already registered MUST close the Session with
`Duplicate Auth Token Alias`. The receiver of a message referencing an Alias
that is not currently registered MUST reject the message with `Unknown Auth
Token Alias`.

The receiver of a message containing a well-formed Token structure but otherwise
invalid AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter MUST reject that message with an
`Malformed Auth Token` error.

The receiver of a message carrying an AUTHORIZATION TOKEN with Alias Type
REGISTER that does not result in a Session error MUST register the Token Alias,
in the token cache, even if the message fails for other reasons, including
`Unauthorized`.  This allows senders to pipeline messages that refer to
previously registered tokens without potentially terminating the entire Session.
A receiver MAY store an error code (eg: Unauthorized or Malformed Auth Token) in
place of the Token Type and Token Alias if any future message referencing the

> Token Alias will result in that error.

Author: ```suggestion
Token Alias will result in that error. The size of a registered cache entry
includes the length of the Token Value, regardless of whether it is stored.
```

The MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE parameter (Parameter Type 0x04) communicates the
maximum size in bytes of all actively registered Authorization tokens that the
server is willing to store per Session. This parameter is optional. The default
value is 0 which prohibits the use of token Aliases.

The token size is calculated as 16 bytes + the size of the Token Value field
(see {{moq-token}}). The total size as restricted by the
MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE parameter is calculated as the sum of the token sizes
for all registered tokens (Alias Type value of 0x01) minus the sum of the token
sizes for all deregistered tokens (Alias Type value of 0x00), since Session
initiation.

#### AUTHORIZATION TOKEN {#setup-auth-token}

See {{authorization-token}}.  The client can specify one or more tokens in
CLIENT_SETUP that the server can use to authorize the client to establish an
MOQT session.  If the server receives a MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE parameter
after an AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN in CLIENT_SETUP, it MUST close the session with a

> Protocol Violation.

Author: Derp you are right.  I confused myself thinking that the MAX_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE param controlled the cache for tokens registered by AUTH_TOKEN params.

An unfortunate side-effect is that because the default max size is 0, the client can't register any tokens in SETUP (but the server can, which makes less sense).  Since we think optionality of this feature is important for servers, the only fix may be to remember params for 0-RTT resume like HTTP?

> Protocol Violation.

Author: Not being able to register a token from CLIENT_SETUP means in cases where I got a single token that authorizes both connecting and say, subscribe, I always have to send it twice :(

> Protocol Violation.

Reviewer 3: I'm not suggesting a protocol change. I'm wondering if any real publisher would expect the same token for both session and subscription establishment.

I honestly don't know the answer.

> Protocol Violation.

Author: > I would expect a single composite token being used for connection and actions

@wilaw Given that, what would you like to see here?  Ideally the client could use REGISTER_TOKEN in CLIENT_SETUP, and USE_ALIAS in subsequent requests.  However, the default toke cache size is 0, so the best you can do now is sending USE_TOKEN in CLIENT_SETUP and then REGISTER_TOKEN in the first control message after SERVER_SETUP.

> Protocol Violation.

Reviewer 4: @afrind - good point. It would be ideal if the alias could be registered on the very first CLIENT-SETUP and then for all other actions you could just pass the alias back. To enable this, I'd like to see the default token cache size to be set to some reasonable non-zero level, to hold at least one composite token. 5MB?

> Protocol Violation.

Author: Removed the nonsense about param ordering and added special handling of CLIENT_SETUP for optimistic registration.

The MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE parameter (Parameter Type 0x04) communicates the
maximum size in bytes of all actively registered Authorization tokens that the
server is willing to store per Session. This parameter is optional. The default
value is 0 which prohibits the use of token Aliases.

The token size is calculated as 16 bytes + the size of the Token Value field
(see {{moq-token}}). The total size as restricted by the
MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE parameter is calculated as the sum of the token sizes
for all registered tokens (Alias Type value of 0x01) minus the sum of the token
sizes for all deregistered tokens (Alias Type value of 0x00), since Session
initiation.

#### AUTHORIZATION TOKEN {#setup-auth-token}

See {{authorization-token}}.  The endpoint can specify one or more tokens in
CLIENT_SETUP or SERVER_SETUP that the peer can use to authorize MOQT session
establishment.

> If a server receives an AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parmeter in CLIENT_SETUP with Alias
> Type REGISTER_TOKEN that exceeds its MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE, it MUST NOT fail

Author: ```suggestion
If a server receives an AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parameter in CLIENT_SETUP with Alias
Type REGISTER_TOKEN that exceeds its MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE, it MUST NOT fail
```

#### AUTHORIZATION TOKEN {#setup-auth-token}

See {{authorization-token}}.  The endpoint can specify one or more tokens in
CLIENT_SETUP or SERVER_SETUP that the peer can use to authorize 
MOQT session establishment.

If a server receives an AUTHORIZATION TOKEN parmeter in CLIENT_SETUP with Alias
Type REGISTER_TOKEN that exceeds its MAX_AUTH_TOKEN_CACHE_SIZE, it MUST NOT fail
the session with `Auth Token Cache Overflow`.  Instead, it MUST treat the

> parameter as Alias Type USE_VALUE.  A client MUST handle registration failures

Reviewer: I don't want to block this. But I still don't see a value or the idea behind using an alias if the cache limit is already exceeded. May be I am missing something here.

Author: The scenario is that there is a single token for session establishment and all allowed actions.  It would be ideal to transmit in CLIENT_SETUP and reference the Alias thereafter.  Without some special treatment however, the client would never be able to REGISTER in CLIENT_SETUP, because the default cache size is 0.

The idea is: allow the clientto REGISTER blind in CLIENT_SETUP, but the server doesn't treat it like an error if the token is too large or it doesn't support token caching.  The server is _not_ obligated to cache tokens larger than its max.
